thank you here is the hell second
trading for the daily coronavirus press
briefing I'm joined by deputy chief
medical officer dr. Jenny Harry's doctor
Harry's is going to set out our next
steps for those people who have been
shielding for the last three months but
just before we do that I'd like to take
you through the latest data if we could
have the first slide please
this slide shows the number of tests
that have been carried out now over
eight million tests in total and it also
shows that for the first time since the
peak the number of cases confirmed
positive cases is under a thousand at
958 next slide please the second slide
shows the number of people in hospital
the the top of the two it shows the
number of people admitted to hospital
with Kovac 19 which is 380 that's down
from 432 a week ago and the bottom slide
the bottom bar chart sorry shows the
number of ventilated patients that is
patients on a mechanical ventilator and
that number is 330 down from 395 a week
earlier so clearly the number of people
going into hospital and the number of
people in the most serious condition in
hospital on ventilated beds both coming
down next slide please
the regional picture is broadly the same
across the country and for the first
time since the peak there are fewer than
5,000 people in hospital with corona
virus and if we go to the final slide
thank you and thankfully the number of
people who have died from corona virus
each day is also coming down the latest
data show that yesterday 15 more deaths
were reported and this is the lowest
figure since mid-march since the 15th of
March and each of these deaths is
someone who is low
and someone who we mourn and each death
is one death too many nevertheless the
fact that we have a figure of reported
deaths that is 15 and much lower than
any previous figure since the peak is
good news however it's a weakened figure
and we do see the number of deaths
reported tend to rise after a weekend
nevertheless having set out all of those
statistics if you take into account the
number of people in hospital the number
of people going into hospital the number
of people testing positive and the
number who sadly have died all of those
figures are coming down and pointing in
the right direction it shows that whilst
there's still much to do
we are clearly making progress we're
working through our plan and this data
shows that that plan is working we
protected the NHS and thanks to the
patience and the sacrifice of everyone
watching infections are falling the NHS
is restoring and the virus is in retreat
a month ago
around 1 in 400 people have the virus
now it's around 1 in 1700 and this means
that tomorrow the Prime Minister will be
able to set out the next steps in our
plan to ease the national lockdown
but there's one group who've been more
patient and given up more than almost
any other and that's the 2.2 million
people who've been shielding in England
Wales Scotland and Northern Ireland have
their own shielding program so what we
say today is about England only and
since the start the clinical advice has
been to protect those who are clinically
extremely vulnerable our shielding
programme has delivered medicine support
and more than three million food boxes
and it's been integral to that plan so
just before turning to dr. Harry's I
want to speak directly to those of you
who have been shielding like so many I
have friends I have family who've been
shielding
and I know what a burden it has been
shielding has involved not leaving your
house for months not seeing people who
you love not being able to go to the
park for some fresh air or even pop to
the shops for something that you need
the sacrifice though has been for a
purpose and I want to thank every single
one of you we knew it was a difficult
ask but these measures have been vital
in saving lives right from the start
we've been clear that we didn't want the
shielding advice to be in place any
longer than is clinically necessary and
very very grateful to the clinicians who
have led this work and kept the clinical
advice on the review so dr. Harris will
now set out the next steps in that
clinical advice and then I'll set out
the practical support that we'll be
maintaining Joe Thank You Secretary of
State and I thought it might be helpful
to say a few words on the clinical basis
for the current shielding program what
we're advising now and what we might see
in the future and that is particularly
to the adults but specifically also the
children who've been shielding this is a
new virus we're continuing to learn
about its transmission and that
knowledge will continue to grow over
coming years at the start of the
epidemic in the UK using the information
we had available and our best
understanding gained from other
respiratory viruses such as flu and SARS
we recognize that some people would
likely to be more vulnerable to severe
outcomes from disease than others
this included older people and those
with underlying medical conditions and
those are normally the people who would
have a flu vaccination each year this
clinically vulnerable group we advise to
be particularly stringent in following
social distancing guidance and that
recommendation continues but senior
clinicians recognize that for a small
subset of the population there may be an
even greater risk so for example this
would be those who may be on
particularly high combinations of
immunosuppressive treatments or where
their disease was particularly poorly
controlled and this group that
clinically extremely vulnerable were
those that we advised to shield
shielding doesn't alter the risks to an
individual of illness if they become
affected but it does reduce the
likelihood of meeting the virus in their
daily lives now we're out of the peak of
the epidemic in the UK and estimated
levels of community transmission and
infection are back to those before
shielding commenced we're in a position
to start relaxing the shielding advice
over the next few weeks we may well
actually have some summer weather a
little in our favor too and therefore
our advice to those shielding is just
take some steps now to start coming back
to a more normal lifestyle this has been
a very difficult and sometimes
frightening period for people who've
been shielding and therefore to give
people time to prepare we're setting out
the advice in a stepped approach so
first from July the six which is a time
period from when other lockdown measures
have been eased so we can ensure we're
monitoring the epidemiology continuously
we're advising that people who are
shielding may want to start meeting in
groups of up to six people outdoors
including those outside their household
if you live alone or you're alone parent
you can think of forming a support
bubble with another household those in a
support bubble can then spend time in
each other's homes including overnight
and then secondly from August the first
we will pause shielding will still be
advising people to stay at home as much
as possible and to minimize contact with
others outside their household but from
August the first our advice would be
that people can go out to more places
see more people this might include going
to the shops for example or visiting a
place of worship if you do leave your
home you should continue to keep a safe
distance from other people at all times
regularly washing your hands for 20
seconds is still one of the most
effective ways that you can protect
yourself if you're unable to work from
home from August the 1st you can return
to
as long as the business is kovat safe
when this program started we used a
precautionary principle new evidence is
telling us that the risks for
individuals are often more clearly due
to a combination of factors in that
individual such as age ethnicity obesity
levels for example as well as the
medical conditions that they have the
chief medical officer has commissioned
work to ensure that should we need to
step up the shielding program again we
would have available a much more
individualized way for you and your
doctor to be able to understand your
risk and to receive more tailored advice
the new risk assessment research
methodology is being published today by
academic colleagues led by Oxford
University in the future therefore those
we advise to take action may be a
slightly different group to those who
shielded through this new disease peak
one group where this is particularly
relevant is for children as evidence has
evolved we've seen that admission to
hospital for all children under 18 years
old with Kovach 19 is very low indeed
only 36 children in the UK have been
admitted to intensive care
shielding guidance to date has covered a
broad range of conditions and clinical
vulnerabilities we know that many
parents have been worried about how they
can protect their children and they
often carry a considerable burden
themselves now we have new guidance
developed by the Royal College of
pediatrics and child health and this
will help families understand who does
and does not need to shield now we have
more evidence we can be much more
specific about risk and it's very likely
that in the future a very few children
will need to shield the evidence the
children's clinical experts have brought
together strongly recommends that
children and young people who are cared
for just in primary care are very
unlikely to need to continue to shield
in the future there is a group of
children that exists who due to their
underlying conditions may need to
continue to shield but over the summer
parents can look forward to discussions
through routine paediatric appointments
and in the interim we will be talking
with your doctors and the Royal Colleges
to ensure everyone has the right
information so for now there is no need
for parents to speak to their doctor
immediately and we will sort that
information out in in due course for
anybody with underlying clinical
conditions whether adult or child
looking forward and after shielding
advices pause we would still continue to
advise you to be careful
keep your overall social interactions
down as low as feels comfortable
initially whether at home or at work and
keep practicing good hand hygiene and
good respiratory hygiene and finally I
would just like to say a special thank
you to clinical colleagues particularly
in primary care and specialists in
hospitals and all of their staff who've
been working hard to support those
shielding over the last three months
thank you very much indeed now if you'll
allow me I'll take one more minute just
to set out the practical consequences of
all this and I'm sure the whole nation
is grateful Jenny that your wisdom is
guiding this work and we're very
grateful for you setting out the
clinical advice so clearly over the next
few weeks we'll all have time to prepare
for these changes first in the coming
days as I promised I'll write to
everybody on the shielding list with
further details about what this means
for you and what to expect and we'll
update our online guidance in line with
these changes I know that after three
months of shielding it might take a bit
of time to adjust to the new guidelines
so we're working closely with the NHS
with councils and charities to make sure
this updated advice is as clear as
possible if you're receiving centrally
provided food boxes or medicine
deliveries this will continue until the
end of July and I'm glad to say that
seven supermarket companies have
confirmed ongoing access to priority
supermarket delivery slots for as long
as they are needed support from NHS
volunteer responders will continue and
so too will the support from NH
mental health services for those
struggling with their mental health and
for anybody facing financial hardship
we've made money available to councils
to help those struggling to buy food and
other essentials and my message to
employers is crystal-clear please work
with us to ease the transition back to a
more normal way of life for shielding
employees we expect you to do the right
thing nothing matters more than keeping
people safe and we will keep the
evidence about the risks to people under
constant review the NHS will maintain
the shielded patient list and we stand
ready to support people to shield again
if that's what's clinically required
including through an enhanced digital
platform the support for the shielded
has been a huge effort of community
spirit with practical and emotional
support alongside the brilliant work of
public health England and the NHS
supported by my department the
community's Department and under the
leadership of Chris Townsend in
government so I want finally to say a
huge thank you to those who've shielded
to all those who have looked after them
and to each and every one of you who've
played your part in the national effort
to bring this virus under control so
let's keep going and say alert control
the virus and save lives
we'll now turn to questions in the first
instance questions from the public
the first question is from Alan from
Ron's ebuy video good afternoon the
government is borrowing unprecedented
sums to fund the current pandemic what
infrastructure projects in the shorter
medium term and the support of the
individual will need to be reviewed as a
consequence of this level of borrowing
thank you well thank you Alan it's a
it's an important question because the
clearly has been as well as the huge
health console
answers that we've been talking about
today this huge economic consequences
from this pandemic and I'm glad to say
that our view on infrastructure projects
is that we need to accelerate them
rather than slow them down in order to
provide for a bounce-back in the economy
that I'm sure everybody wants to see so
that is very much led on by my colleague
Ritchie soon at the chance of the
Exchequer who I think's been doing an
absolutely brilliant job but our overall
approach is yes unfortunately borrowing
is obviously going up but this is a
one-off hopefully once in a century
event and we therefore want to keep
investing in our infrastructure and if
anything accelerates our investment in
our infrastructure so that we can get
the economy going as soon as we can as
we can bring the virus under control
the next question is has been sent in in
written form from Mandy from Salisbury
Mandy asks with Ryanair and easyJet
commencing flights or getting ready to
commence flights on the 1st of July can
you clarify what work is being done to
establish and formalize travel corridors
well thank you Mandy thanks for that
question you're right that a lot of work
is being done on travel corridors I've
been working on it over the weekend and
we have a formal review date of the
quarantine policy at the end of this
month on the 29th of June and we'll make
sure that in good time for that and we
publish what we plan to do next
in terms of where we think on again
based on the epidemiological advice
where we think we're able to formalize
travel corridors I know that people are
really looking forward to getting this
information but we've got to make sure
that we get it right and that work is is
going on right now so I'm sorry I
haven't been able directly to answer
your question other than to assure you
that we're working on it very
intensively the next question is from
Hugh pin of the BBC who joins us live
Hieu thank you very much secretary of
state some people have told us that even
after shielding ends they will be
concerned about leaving home and going
back to work
what reassurances can you give them that
that will be understood and they will
get full support
thanks you I think this is a really
important question and it's so important
that employers work with us and
crucially work with their employees to
support them to get back to work in a
covert secure environment and it's
critical that the work is provided in a
covert secure way for people who are
shielding but I'd also say that we've
we've taken this step based on the
clinical evidence and the clinical
advice Jenny yes I think a couple of
points there firstly to absolutely
acknowledge that people who've been
shielding many of them are quite
frightened and anxious understandably
many have not been taking many steps
outside and and I know that from
speaking to GP colleagues for example
the important thing here is that this
shielding program is not so much about
the individual interaction with the
disease it's actually a population-based
exercise so we know and we've seen from
the slides today that the infection in
the community those rates have come
right down so we can never be 100% sure
you know we all have a small residual
risk but I think firstly the
epidemiology is right secondly although
we don't really understand the seasonal
effect it does look a little bit as
though that may be helping disease at
the moment and I think thirdly which
might be the most important bit for
those who are shielding is that in fact
all of the guidance for businesses in
terms of mitigating risks making sure
that businesses are covered safe
actually comes through much of it over
my desk individually and with public
health England colleagues and we
scrutinize that to make sure that the
steps that the businesses have to put in
place are the ones which will maximize
the safety of all their employees but I
think particularly important for those
shielding thanks you just add one more
you aren't going to end
very sick pay for the shield heed isn't
that a another source of potential worry
if they don't really feel they can't go
back to work well again you'd we've
taken this decision based on clinical
advice of the safety of being able to go
back to work when the shielding program
is at paws we've extended it until the
end of July and then it'll be pause and
I use the word paused very deliberately
because the list will continue and
should the clinical advice be that we
need to bring it back in then that's
what we'll do and of course we want to
support people to get their lives back
to as close as normal as possible
especially for those who who've been
shielding who've had such a for whom the
advices had such a very big impact on
their lives thanks very much indeed the
next question is from Emily Morgan from
ITV hi Emily your silent still
hello hello hi I'm just picking up on
what hue pin was asking it appears that
you are going to be relying on the
goodwill of employers to help support
Shielders but what measures are you
actually going to put in place to
legally protect those who don't feel
safe going back to work and whose
employers perhaps can't keep them on or
you simply aren't supported well of
course the the legal framework for
people at work continues and existent
has been in place all the way through
this crisis and we wouldn't take this
step to say that that after the
extension that it is safe to pause the
shielding advice unless that was what
the clinicians advise so dr. Harris has
been leading on that advice and taking
all of the risks into account Jenny yes
I probably just wanted to add something
just from won't apply to everybody but I
think there is quite a difficult balance
here because for many people who have
been active normal societal circulation
if you like actually having a job going
to work and doing something purposeful
is really important for your ongoing
health and your economic and mental
health as well and so what we've done
with the program is put a very extended
period in from the epidemiology today it
would really be possible to say actually
let's advise everybody to to jump back
into work today but we absolutely
recognize that that's not what's going
to help people pick up the confidence I
think to go back so I think it's a
combination both of having employers who
are prepared to share have those
individual conversations share the
changes that have made in their
environments and to reassure them that
they are covered safe and equally at
time for individuals to be able to get
used to the idea if you like of getting
back and not going straight back into
work this week or next but actually over
a time period so I think there's a
there's a benefit on on both sides and
it may actually although people will be
fearful they perhaps sometimes do need
to push a little bit in order to get the
benefit
themselves thanks very much the next
question is from Sam Coates
at sky Sam secretary of state um
today the governor of the Bank of
England Andrew Bailey told Sky News that
in March he stepped in with a massive
money printing effort when it looked
like the government might not be able to
borrow enough through normal means
looking ahead does the Bank of England's
safety net give you comfort that you can
continue to do whatever it takes
economically as he worked to prevent a
second spike or spike in unemployment in
the coming months and dr. Johnny Harris
do you think's do you think that
children shielding will be able to go to
school in September it also the
director-general of the World Health
Organization has said that globally
yesterday there were a hundred ninety
three thousand new cases of corona virus
which he said is easily the most cases
in a single day does that give you any
pause for thoughts
well thanks Sam the the governor of the
Bank of England the and the Chancellor
and the prime minister have been working
very closely together on the economic
response along with the rest of
government and it's so important that
the institutions that govern our
economic policy have worked together in
the way that they have the Bank of
England independent of course but
nevertheless able to support the economy
in these extraordinary times and I think
that you know the way that the the Bank
of England has has handled this has been
absolutely exemplary and they have done
a terrific job naturally managing the
economic fallout of a pandemic that's
had the consequences that it has had
economically is an incredibly difficult
job but I think that the I think that
the bank have very much played their
part and obviously looking forward it's
very important that we manage the
economy as best we possibly can to get
it there bring it back as much as we can
subject obviously to the safety of
keeping the virus no because if we ended
up with the second spike that
overwhelmed the NHS then obviously that
would have a huge negative you can
implications so there isn't a there
isn't a a trade-off there there is but
it's something that we all work on
together if I may on the on if I tie I'm
also going to have a go at your third
question but the because it ties in with
what Mandy from Salisbury asked as well
which is that of course we look and with
the clinical advisors we look at what's
happening around the world and this
shows why it is important that we have a
quarantine process in place because
there are some parts of the world where
unfortunately this virus is really
shooting up Jenni thank you yes so
perhaps just adding on to that of course
as you look across its countries which
have not experienced this so far which
are largely contributing to that massive
climb and so the the Americas Latin
America and and I think we are concerned
looking forward about global cases
particularly focused on in Africa as
well your viewers will have seen the
epidemic peak that's happened in the UK
many other countries and they haven't
peaked yet in those countries so we can
anticipate there will be a lot more
cases sadly on the point about children
absolutely I think the good news in many
ways about the new research and I would
direct your viewers and worried parents
to the Royal College of pediatrics and
child health we'll put a link on our
guidance but if they just google our
cpc-h or other Network chains are
available but if they look on that they
will see some quite detailed information
that will allow them really to get a
sense of where their child fits into
that risk picture what we know is that
there are almost certainly a large
number very large number of children who
are not going to school at the moment
who could go because parents are
concerned that they should be shielding
so a typical example but not the only
one will be a child who has some asthma
but it's very well controlled they don't
normally see a specialist or they may
have seen them once or twice they see
their GP occasionally who checks on them
they may well be growing out of it there
perhaps get it when they run around a
bit and do some exercise
those children are
or very very low risk from covert they
are probably at very very significant
risk of getting left behind in their
education and in terms of their
long-term health outcomes that will be
far worse so absolutely we anticipate
that sort of by September clearly
there's a time for this to work through
to make sure everybody particularly
doctors have good advice to be talking
with parents so not not immediately not
tomorrow this week but over the coming
weeks so that by the time we're back
into the September when we'd anticipate
schools will be fully open with all
children attending there should be a
much fewer number of children who are on
the shielding list who would need to be
away from school
thanks very much Sam the next question
is from Oliver Milne from The Daily
Mirror Oliver hi Secretary of State
you've said you're going to rely on the
goodwill of employers but the reality is
employment like this because our bosses
don't listen to appeals to their
compassion are you willing to consider
as trade unionists and campaigners have
demanded changes to the law to give
legal protection to those who are most
vulnerable at this time as they return
to work and dr. Harris you spoke about
the complexity of the Underland range of
the underlying conditions that people
have been shielding have experienced but
this advice is being listed all at once
for all of them know there will be
people and we know because they blog
there and Susie in on a group so they
have a member of an ethnic minority or
suffer from poverty or because they have
very serious ongoing health conditions
there may be more at risk than others
even within this shielding group what
advice do you have for them and if
they're concerned should they speak to
their GP thanks very much Oliver and
precisely to the point in your question
there are those legal protections in law
absolutely and we've been advising
people to to shield but because the
clinical advice is that it is safe to
change that advice from the 1st of
August having extended it for a month
for this
coming then we're bringing forward the
changes because the clinical advice has
is that it's now safe for people to go
back to work and of course employers
need to follow coverage secure
guidelines as has been set out in
government guidance on the second
question I'll hand over to Joan yes
thank you so first important question is
do not all go off to your GPS tomorrow
morning because that probably won't
won't help the GPS or you but in fact it
shouldn't be necessary firstly as we've
said earlier the guidance is being
stepped ahead if you like so people have
plenty of time to think through we can
discuss with which we have done already
but have continued discussions with
colleagues in neurology general practice
for example and in pediatrics and child
health and that their members can then
have those very solid discussions with
people who are shielding but it goes
back a little bit so why the shielding
program came in so it is not it we
recognize a group of people with risk
and they will have disliked lis
different risks but actually it is the
epidemiology which is driving the
program it's whether you are likely to
meet if you like the virus when you head
out and we can never say absolutely 100%
none of us will make this virus at the
moment that's not possible but we can
say the levels are now so low so as the
secretary of state said the data last
week week for last was on average in our
communities you would have to meet 1,700
people before you came across a case of
infection so it's trying I think to get
that perspective and proportionality
into people's understanding and so the
issue here is the epidemiology changes
so it's whether you meet the disease or
not for individuals they will have a
different risk if they meet it but it's
not actually I think everybody quite
reasonably is seeing it from their own
disease perspective where what we're
saying is the epidemiology has changed I
think the bit that will help people
going forward we're coming up we hope to
a sustained period of a
infection I'm actually more concerned I
think about if we get to the winter and
we have cold weather and we haven't
everybody hasn't continued to social
existence and keep on top of this but
what we will have which will help
employment discussions then is and
hopefully this this new assessment a new
tool if you like to support discussions
and what that will do is give that very
individualized discussion with your GP
or with your specialist which will
account both for the underlying
conditions and some of the other
attributes you know if if for example
you are from Southeast Asian background
and are a young footballer for example
your risk would be very very low indeed
but if you are elderly if you have other
conditions obesity diabetes or what have
you it age is actually one of the
biggest variables but all of these
things need to be factored together for
your own individual assessment so I
think now is as safe as it's likely to
be for a while when it gets back to the
winter I think we're going to have a
different tool and that will help both
individual and employers
thanks very much Oliver just one other
quick one if it's possible sure go ahead
you mentioned about the retooling
essentially this fielding list does that
mean that you're developing the
capabilities to instigate regional
shielding locked Isis for example if as
the technological outbreaks were to to
break out if contagion was more likely
in a town in the northeast for example
could fielding be issues there on a
localized level using this new tool that
you're developing we will have the
ability to do that and we'd consider
that as part of a local lockdown if that
was what was clinically advised thanks
very much
the next question is Andy from Andy
Woodcock of the independent Andy
hello health secretary you've announced
some changes to the lockdown
restrictions today and tomorrow we're
expecting further changes and
restrictions there's been a lot of hints
that we're going to see the 2-meter
social distancing rule dropped to one
we're going to have hospitality
reopening at the start of July and yet
the independence age group that led by
the prime ministers
chief scientific adviser David King says
that it's much too soon to do this and
the rate of infection is still far too
high if there's a division like that
between the scientists and the
politicians which is playing out in
public wouldn't the public the right to
suspect that these decisions relaxation
is being made for social and economic
reasons rather than to protect public
health and I wouldn't they be right to
be very concerned about that and dr. dr.
Harry's we've seen in Germany recently
they they relaxed lockdown before us and
over the weekend there our rate seems to
have reinfection seemed shot up from
just over 1/2 going on for three in the
space of a few days our own our rates
are gone to what we can see is is only
just below one how concerned are you
that we're going to follow Germany down
that route and what sort of firm
consensus do you think there is amongst
the scientific and medical community
that now is the time to this or a
relaxation and within Sage is it
consensus or is it half and half full or
just a bare majority well thanks Andy
as you know we've been guided by the
science throughout this and taking the
advice of the scientists has been a
critical part of working on the next
stages in the plan but as you can see
from the chart I don't know if you're
with us at the start of the press
conference but at the start of the press
conference we could see that the number
of new cases is coming down and the
number of hospitalizations is coming
right down and the and you know based on
that data and on the clinical advice
that's what's been feeding into the
decisions that the Prime Minister will
be announcing tomorrow and science
always has competing voices but we try
to listen to all of the different
scientific advice rather than just one
individual journey so perhaps pick up
the Germany issue first I think it's an
important salient point to make to to
viewers and for all of us that even
where lockdown measures are being eased
we do all still need to follow social
distancing rule
to keep washing our hands keep catch up
in it kill it for a respiratory hygiene
so all of those things still apply so I
think there is a critical point here
that says just because life is feeling a
bit more back to normal
don't suddenly jump to where you were
for example this time last year we need
to learn to go forward with restrictions
in our lives in order to get the maximum
benefit from some of this easing I think
with with Germany I mean what that shows
is anything is possible but I think we
have built into the system in the UK to
be able now through the joint
biosecurity Center and and the data
flows to be very clear where we may see
hotspots whether it be from an
organizational or in a community for
example and through the tests and traced
working with directs of Public Health
and local authorities that means it's
possible to identify them very early and
not allow that to come through but going
on to your your scientific point I think
well there's a very scientific technical
point about the r-value because actually
as numbers go down it becomes a less
reliable mechanism for counting that's
to do with low numbers of cases so that
that is one issue but I think we will be
looking at both the the growth rate of
the virus in the UK of the disease and
the our rate the sage that gives the
advice to government and it is advice
and it's the politicians who decide on
the measures that they wish to take on a
balance so the advice that is given is
already coming from a consensus of
scientists they give the advice and the
politicians act on that advice it is the
consensus around us and consensus as of
last week was that our our remains
between nought point 7 and not point 9
thanks very much the final question is
from Chris Lloyd from the northern eco
Chris hello thank you for having me the
Northeast still has some of the highest
numbers of coronavirus cases ons
statistics for May chose 3 of the 10
constituencies with the most deaths per
100,000 were up here live Valley Bishop
Auckland and Northwest Dharam all three
incidentally being seats which elected
Conservative MPs for the first time in
December so what explains this higher
rate is it lower economic levels is it
care home policy is it something else
what has been going on in the region's
then secondly I think people caught up
here or people up here a court and they
want to do their bit as you ease
lockdown and shielding they want to get
out but they are fearful because the
statistics show that there are hotspots
on their doorsteps
are they right to be worried how do you
lay their fears and then finally the
Conservatives won those seats partly
because of the promise of leveling up
the northeast economy has the pandemic
changed your approach is it all about
physical infrastructure spend is it
about social infrastructure spending is
it about job creation or moving
departments out of London how are you
going to level up yeah
thanks Chris it's great to have you on
and my absolute number one thing I want
to say in response to your three
questions is that the leveling up agenda
issue is even more important with this
pandemic we've seen with the including
some of the statistics that you show the
importance of making sure there is a
more even distribution of opportunity of
health and of wealth across this country
and that's what the leveling up agenda
is all about so we're going to redouble
our work on leveling up as we come out
of the coronavirus crisis and it's going
to be a very big feature of the years to
come and the I'll pass the journey
journey on the scientific questions but
the final point I'd make is that the
people of the Northeast have have made
sacrifices in an unbelievable way to
ensure that we get this virus on the
control the virus is under control in
the Northeast as well as across the rest
of the country are is below one the
number of cases is falling the NHS in
the Northeast has done an amazing job
right from having the very first the
very first case back in February
feels like an age ago and all the way
through and social care providers have
done their part too of course we need to
look into why there was a difference in
the numbers of cases and the number of
deaths in different parts of the country
but all I can say is that I know that
the people of the Northeast have played
their part Jenny yes thank you
so it reflects in many ways santa teresa
i think about infectious disease not
just in the UK but right across the
world where less affluent populations
will be worse hit and you've already
alluded to that and and the
opportunities there for the leveling up
program i think to say whether people
should be anxious i would rather they
were careful and concerned
it won't help if people are too
frightened to go out but actually if
they are practicing all the social
distance and measures themselves and
still continuing to have social
interactions but limit the ones that are
- just the ones that make them feel
comfortable so not exceeding that not
heading off to parties not doing those
ones which are more dangerous keep to
the social distancing guidelines that we
have now they are there to keep people
safe and to keep areas safe as well so i
think be be careful and be cautious but
don't be too anxious thanks very much
and thanks everybody for the questions
that ends today's coronavirus press
briefing thank you
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch BBC News live in the app and get
the full story with BBC decoder UK
forward slash news follow the story for
all the latest with BBC News